documents/bookmarks.md, before:

# Bookmarks

## Online Services

1. [Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/): Personal digital library and RSS reader


### Cloud Providers
1. [Terraform Directory of Cloud Providers](https://registry.terraform.io/browse/providers)
1. [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/)
1. [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)
    - [CDK](https://aws.amazon.com/cdk/): Infrastructure-as-code for AWS.
    - [CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/): Interact with AWS services using commands in your command-line shell.
1. [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)

### Educational Sites
1. [Kahn Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/): Free high quality education videos and quizzes
1. [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/): High quality courses on many topics
1. [Symbolab](https://www.symbolab.com/): Online symbolic mathematics, including a practice quiz generator and solver with understandable step-wise solutions.
1. [Wolfram Alpha](https://www.wolframalpha.com/): Symbolic mathematics, data analytics, and search and a digital notebook
1. [Brilliant](https://brilliant.org/): Interactive learning

## Reference
1. [Universal Scene Description .usd](https://remedy-entertainment.github.io/USDBook/index.html)
1. [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org)

## Source Code
1. [obs-studio](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio): OBS Studio - Free and open source software for live streaming and screen recording
1. [obs-studio + WebRTC](https://github.com/CoSMoSoftware/OBS-studio-webrtc): Fork of OBS Studio with WebRTC support via a plugin.
1. [textual-markdown](https://github.com/willmcgugan/textual-markdown): Terminal based markdown browser
1. [squash compression API and benchmark](https://quixdb.github.io/squash-benchmark/): The Squash library is an abstraction layer for compression algorithms, making it trivial to switch between them.

## Tools

1. [Git](https://git-scm.com/): distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency
1. [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/): A platform, including an open marketplace of plugins for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.
1. [nix](https://nixos.org/): package management featuring reproducibility supporting declarative syntax. There is also NixOS (same link) which is a linux distribution utilizing nix.
1. [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html): c++ code formatter
1. [CMake](https://cmake.org/): cross-platform family of tools designed to build, test and package software
1. [direnv](https://direnv.net/): an extension for your shell. It augments existing shells with a new feature that can load and unload environment variables depending on the current directory.
1. [Emscripten](https://emscripten.org/): Toolchain for web assembly
1. [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/): infrastructure-as-code supporting many online services
1. [Docker](https://www.docker.com/): Docker is an open platform for developing, shipping, and running applications.
1. [Dive](https://github.com/wagoodman/dive): A console tool for exploring the internals of a docker image, including the layers, efficiency metrics, and more.
1. [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/): configuration management and automation as code across many servers or virtual resources
1. [Python](https://www.python.org/): high-level language supporting multi-service integration
1. [black](https://github.com/psf/black): deterministic code formatter for python
1. [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/): cross-platform package manager
1. [Cookiecutter](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter): A cross-platform command-line utility that creates projects from project templates, e.g. Python package projects, C projects.
1. [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/): python linter. tool for style guide enforcement
1. [nox](https://nox.thea.codes/): nox is a command-line tool that automates testing in multiple Python environments
1. [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm): nvm is a version manager for node.js, designed to be installed per-user, and invoked per-shell.
1. [node.js](https://nodejs.org/): an open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment.
1. [npm](https://www.npmjs.com): javascript package manager
1. [typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org): TypeScript is a strongly typed programming language that builds on JavaScript, giving you better tooling at any scale.
1. [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/): web-based scientific notebook supporting interactive visualization and multiple language kernels
1. [jupytext](https://github.com/mwouts/jupytext): Jupyter plugin for better integration with version control systems such as git.
1. [OCaml](https://ocaml.org): OCaml is a general-purpose, industrial-strength programming language with an emphasis on expressiveness and safety.

Commit message:

many note updates and better integration with kubernetes. auto updating of the .kube subdirectory and /hosts to support use of the host-side docker daemon. This config is referred to as docker-from-docker.

documents/bookmarks.md, after:

# Bookmarks

## Online Services

1. [Zotero](https://www.zotero.org/): Personal digital library and RSS reader


### Cloud Providers
1. [Terraform Directory of Cloud Providers](https://registry.terraform.io/browse/providers)
1. [Google Cloud](https://cloud.google.com/)
1. [AWS](https://aws.amazon.com/)
    - [CDK](https://aws.amazon.com/cdk/): Infrastructure-as-code for AWS.
    - [CLI](https://aws.amazon.com/cli/): Interact with AWS services using commands in your command-line shell.
1. [Microsoft Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/)

### Educational Sites
1. [Kahn Academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/): Free high quality education videos and quizzes
1. [Coursera](https://www.coursera.org/): High quality courses on many topics
1. [Symbolab](https://www.symbolab.com/): Online symbolic mathematics, including a practice quiz generator and solver with understandable step-wise solutions.
1. [Wolfram Alpha](https://www.wolframalpha.com/): Symbolic mathematics, data analytics, and search and a digital notebook
1. [Brilliant](https://brilliant.org/): Interactive learning

## Reference
1. [Universal Scene Description .usd](https://remedy-entertainment.github.io/USDBook/index.html)
1. [Wikipedia](https://www.wikipedia.org)

## Source Code
1. [obs-studio](https://github.com/obsproject/obs-studio): OBS Studio - Free and open source software for live streaming and screen recording
1. [obs-studio + WebRTC](https://github.com/CoSMoSoftware/OBS-studio-webrtc): Fork of OBS Studio with WebRTC support via a plugin.
1. [textual-markdown](https://github.com/willmcgugan/textual-markdown): Terminal based markdown browser
1. [squash compression API and benchmark](https://quixdb.github.io/squash-benchmark/): The Squash library is an abstraction layer for compression algorithms, making it trivial to switch between them.

## Tools

1. [Git](https://git-scm.com/): distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency
1. [pre-commit](https://pre-commit.com/): A platform, including an open marketplace of plugins for managing and maintaining multi-language pre-commit hooks.
1. [nix](https://nixos.org/): package management featuring reproducibility supporting declarative syntax. There is also NixOS (same link) which is a linux distribution utilizing nix.
1. [clang-format](https://clang.llvm.org/docs/ClangFormat.html): c++ code formatter
1. [CMake](https://cmake.org/): cross-platform family of tools designed to build, test and package software
1. [direnv](https://direnv.net/): an extension for your shell. It augments existing shells with a new feature that can load and unload environment variables depending on the current directory.
1. [Emscripten](https://emscripten.org/): Toolchain for web assembly
1. [Terraform](https://www.terraform.io/): infrastructure-as-code supporting many online services
1. [Docker](https://www.docker.com/): Docker is an open platform for developing, shipping, and running applications.
1. [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io): open-source system for automating deployment, scaling, and management of containerized applications.
    - [kubectl](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/):  command line tool for communicating with a Kubernetes cluster's control plane, using the Kubernetes API.
1. [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/docs/): minikube quickly sets up a local Kubernetes cluster on macOS, Linux, and Windows.
1. [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io): a tool for running local Kubernetes clusters using Docker container “nodes”. iow. a multi-node alternative to minikube for local development.
1. [Dive](https://github.com/wagoodman/dive): A console tool for exploring the internals of a docker image, including the layers, efficiency metrics, and more.
1. [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/): configuration management and automation as code across many servers or virtual resources
1. [Python](https://www.python.org/): high-level language supporting multi-service integration
1. [black](https://github.com/psf/black): deterministic code formatter for python
1. [conda](https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/): cross-platform package manager
1. [Cookiecutter](https://github.com/cookiecutter/cookiecutter): A cross-platform command-line utility that creates projects from project templates, e.g. Python package projects, C projects.
1. [flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/): python linter. tool for style guide enforcement
1. [nox](https://nox.thea.codes/): nox is a command-line tool that automates testing in multiple Python environments
1. [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm): nvm is a version manager for node.js, designed to be installed per-user, and invoked per-shell.
1. [node.js](https://nodejs.org/): an open-source, cross-platform JavaScript runtime environment.
1. [npm](https://www.npmjs.com): javascript package manager
1. [typescript](https://www.typescriptlang.org): TypeScript is a strongly typed programming language that builds on JavaScript, giving you better tooling at any scale.
1. [Jupyter](https://jupyter.org/): web-based scientific notebook supporting interactive visualization and multiple language kernels
1. [jupytext](https://github.com/mwouts/jupytext): Jupyter plugin for better integration with version control systems such as git.
1. [OCaml](https://ocaml.org): OCaml is a general-purpose, industrial-strength programming language with an emphasis on expressiveness and safety.
